# adjointModel
This is a case study to combine the source oriented and receptor source apportionment methods based on the measurements during Feb.7 to Feb.11, 2021.

## Preparation
Now we have a long queue to download the meteo data from ECMWF. The precessing tools in Polyphemus need the meteo data saved by days. To shorten the queueing time, we download all the data for the calculation period once. Then use the [grib_filter](https://confluence.ecmwf.int/display/ECC/grib_filter) in the grib tools to split the whole data into days.

Install the grib api tools
> sudo apt-get install libgrib-api-tools

## Meteorological data preparation
* Meteorological data: the adjoint model should run backward in time. Considering the measurements duration, we decided to prepare the meteorological data covering whole January until Feb. 12, 2021. 

To split the file, in "rules_file"
> write "[centre]_[date].grib";

Then, run the grib_filter to split the data file
> grib_filter rules_file SingleLevel_20210101.grib 

where SingleLevel_20210101.grib is the downloaded file

[Xygrib](https://opengribs.org/en/) can be used to overview the generated data files, and check the file information, including area and numbers of grid points.

* [fetchEcmwfData.ipynb](forwardRun/rawData/meteo/fetchEcmwfData.ipynb): download raw meteo data from the ERA5 reanalysis product database of ECMWF
* [preProcessing.py](forwardRun/preProcessing.py): generate the model-ready ground data and meteorological data for Polair3d model.

## Map data
* [Shapefiles](forwardRun/rawData/map/mapLink): the shapefiles should be downloaded and extracted into the map folder.
 
## Emission data preparation
* Temporal profile: use the newly developed [high resolution emission profiles in EDGAR](https://edgar.jrc.ec.europa.eu/dataset_temp_profile). The hourly profile is generated by the combination of weekly factors and daily factors.
* [profiles_MEIC.m](src/preprocessing/profiles_MEIC.m): generate the model ready emissions for five sectors (i.e. industry, residential combustion, traffic, power and agriculture) by combining three emission inventories, Beijing-Tianjing-Hebei fine emission inventory, MEIC emission inventory for China and MIX for Asia, which can be obtained from the [MEIC database](http://meicmodel.org/).   

## Run forward model
* [preProcessing.py](forwardRun/preProcessing.py): prepare the input data for the forward run.
* [configs](forwardRun/config): all the configurations files for the forward run.
* [changeConfigLog](forwardRun/changeConfigLog): the items that might be changed in the configs for new cases.

## Run adjoint model
* [adjointFullRun.m](src/preprocessing/adjoint/adjointFullRun.m): generate the meteorological data for the adjoint model, and run the adjoint model based on the time period of the [measurement data](forwardRun/rawData/measurements/Xian.csv)
* [utils](src/utils/): common tools required by adjoint and other models.

## Postprocessing
* [drawMap.m](src/postprocessing/drawMap/drawMap.m): generate maps for postprocessing.

## Polyphemus modifications
* [meteo.cpp](src/modifiedPolyphemus/meteo.cpp): The original meteo.cpp in Polyphemus has been modified in order to use ERA5 data, which only 1 hour accumulation
https://confluence.ecmwf.int/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=155337784 
> scons meteo_parallel openmp=yes flag_openmp=mp

* [polair3dAdjoint.cpp](src/modifiedPolyphemus/polair3dAjoint/polair3dAdjoint.cpp): modified code for adjoint run, and it should be put in the 'processing/photochemistry' folder of the original Polyphemus codes.
* [luc-glcf.cpp](src/modifiedPolyphemus/luc-glcf.cpp): modified the bugs in the original code when preprocessing the land use data due to the exceeding   the limits of the input file.
* [Preprocessing_T639_meteo.cpp](src/modifiedPolyphemus/Preprocessing_T639_meteo.cpp): new code to preprocess the meteo data from the T639 model.
* [included files](src/modifiedPolyphemus/polair3dAjoint/includeModels/): the modified codes in this folder should be put in the "/include/models" folder o the original Polyphemus codes.
